README.md, before:

You can suggest more bugs/improvements😊

Improvements : 
1) Make it Mobile responsive (specially the first tab, Grid View).



Bugs : 
1) Months above calender are not matching with the days below them perfectly. (Tracking Calender is not professional or like the one we have in github)
2) User needs to reload next day once to insert entry of that particular day. (need auto refresh or some logic to fix this)
3) Color on left side box (How productive you are today Box , When we entering the productivity) and color on Streak calender are different.Make then Not Productive Red --> Very Productive Green.
4) 

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (version 16 or higher)
- npm or yarn package manager
- Git

### 📥 Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/DevStreak.git
   cd DevStreak
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Run the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to view the application.

### 🔧 Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint for code quality

---

## 📖 About DevStreak

**DevStreak** is a productivity tracking application designed to help developers and professionals build consistent daily habits. Inspired by GitHub's contribution graph, it provides a visual representation of your daily productivity levels over time.

### ✨ Key Features

- **Daily Productivity Tracking**: Log your productivity level (1-4 scale) each day
- **Visual Progress**: GitHub-style contribution grid showing your productivity journey
- **Multiple Views**: 
  - Grid View: GitHub-style contribution graph
  - Calendar View: Traditional calendar layout
  - Progress Card: Detailed statistics and insights
- **Streak Counter**: Track consecutive productive days
- **Local Storage**: All data is stored locally in your browser
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Bug Reporting**: Built-in bug reporting system
- **Export Functionality**: Download your progress as images

### 🎯 Productivity Levels

1. **Level 1** - Low Productivity (Light color)
2. **Level 2** - Moderate Productivity 
3. **Level 3** - Good Productivity
4. **Level 4** - High Productivity (Darkest color)

---

## 🏗️ Architecture & Data Storage

### Data Storage
The application uses **browser localStorage** for data persistence:

- **Storage Key**: `devstreak-data`
- **Data Format**: JSON object with date strings as keys and productivity levels as values
- **Example**: 
  ```json
  {
    "2024-01-15": 3,
    "2024-01-16": 4,
    "2024-01-17": 2
  }
  ```

### State Management
- **React Hooks**: Uses useState and useEffect for state management
- **Local State**: All application state is managed locally within components
- **No External Store**: No Redux, Zustand, or other state management libraries

### Storage Utilities (`src/utils/storageUtils.ts`)
- `saveProductivityData()` - Saves data to localStorage
- `loadProductivityData()` - Retrieves data from localStorage  
- `clearAllData()` - Removes all stored data

---

## 📁 Folder Structure

```
DevStreak/
├── public/                     # Public assets
├── src/                        # Source code
│   ├── components/             # React components
│   │   ├── BugReportForm.tsx   # Bug reporting functionality
│   │   ├── CalendarView.tsx    # Calendar layout view
│   │   ├── ContributionGrid.tsx # GitHub-style grid view
│   │   ├── ProductivitySelector.tsx # Daily productivity input
│   │   ├── ProgressCard.tsx    # Statistics and progress insights
│   │   ├── StreakCounter.tsx   # Consecutive days counter
│   │   ├── Toast.tsx          # Toast notifications
│   │   └── Tooltip.tsx        # Hover tooltips for grid cells
│   ├── types/                  # TypeScript type definitions
│   │   └── index.ts           # Main interfaces and types
│   ├── utils/                  # Utility functions
│   │   ├── dateUtils.ts       # Date formatting and manipulation
│   │   ├── storageUtils.ts    # localStorage operations
│   │   └── streakUtils.ts     # Streak calculation logic
│   ├── App.tsx                # Main application component
│   ├── main.tsx              # Application entry point
│   ├── index.css             # Global styles
│   └── vite-env.d.ts         # Vite type declarations
├── index.html                 # HTML template
├── package.json              # Dependencies and scripts
├── tailwind.config.js        # Tailwind CSS configuration
├── vite.config.ts           # Vite build configuration
├── tsconfig.json            # TypeScript configuration
└── README.md                # Project documentation
```

### Component Overview

| Component | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| `App.tsx` | Main application logic and routing |
| `ContributionGrid.tsx` | GitHub-style productivity grid |
| `CalendarView.tsx` | Traditional calendar layout |
| `ProgressCard.tsx` | Statistics and analytics view |
| `ProductivitySelector.tsx` | Daily productivity level input |
| `StreakCounter.tsx` | Current streak display |
| `BugReportForm.tsx` | Bug reporting interface |
| `Toast.tsx` | Success/error notifications |
| `Tooltip.tsx` | Hover information display |

### Utility Functions

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `dateUtils.ts` | Date formatting (YYYY-MM-DD), today's date |
| `storageUtils.ts` | localStorage operations for data persistence |
| `streakUtils.ts` | Calculate consecutive productive days |

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend Framework**: React 18 with TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Icons**: Lucide React
- **Screenshot**: html2canvas
- **Linting**: ESLint
- **Package Manager**: npm

---

## 🎨 Design System

- **Color Scheme**: Dark mode with gray-900 background
- **Productivity Colors**: Green gradient (light to dark based on levels)
- **Typography**: System fonts with good contrast
- **Responsive**: Mobile-first approach with Tailwind breakpoints
- **Accessibility**: Proper contrast ratios and semantic HTML

Commit message:

Revise README.md to include a structured section for known issues and planned improvements, enhancing clarity on bugs and future enhancements.

README.md, after:

# 🔥 DevStreak

## 📋 Bugs & Improvements

### 🐛 Known Issues

| # | Issue | Description | Priority |
|---|-------|-------------|----------|
| 1 | **Calendar Alignment** | Months above calendar don't align perfectly with days below them. The tracking calendar needs to be more professional like GitHub's | 🔴 High |
| 2 | **Auto-refresh Logic** | User needs to reload page the next day to insert entry for that particular day (need auto refresh or some logic to fix this) | 🟡 Medium |
| 3 | **Color Consistency** | Colors on left side box (productivity input) and streak calendar are different. Should be: Not Productive (Red) → Very Productive (Green) | 🟡 Medium |
| 4 | **Pending Issue** | *To be documented* | ⚪ TBD |

### 💡 Planned Improvements

| # | Improvement | Description | Status |
|---|-------------|-------------|--------|
| 1 | **Mobile Responsiveness** | Make it mobile responsive, especially the Grid View tab | 🔄 In Progress |

---

**💭 Have more suggestions?** Feel free to suggest more bugs/improvements! 😊

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (version 16 or higher)
- npm or yarn package manager
- Git

### 📥 Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/DevStreak.git
   cd DevStreak
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Run the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to view the application.

### 🔧 Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint for code quality

---

## 📖 About DevStreak

**DevStreak** is a productivity tracking application designed to help developers and professionals build consistent daily habits. Inspired by GitHub's contribution graph, it provides a visual representation of your daily productivity levels over time.

### ✨ Key Features

- **Daily Productivity Tracking**: Log your productivity level (1-4 scale) each day
- **Visual Progress**: GitHub-style contribution grid showing your productivity journey
- **Multiple Views**: 
  - Grid View: GitHub-style contribution graph
  - Calendar View: Traditional calendar layout
  - Progress Card: Detailed statistics and insights
- **Streak Counter**: Track consecutive productive days
- **Local Storage**: All data is stored locally in your browser
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Bug Reporting**: Built-in bug reporting system
- **Export Functionality**: Download your progress as images

### 🎯 Productivity Levels

1. **Level 1** - Low Productivity (Light color)
2. **Level 2** - Moderate Productivity 
3. **Level 3** - Good Productivity
4. **Level 4** - High Productivity (Darkest color)

---

## 🏗️ Architecture & Data Storage

### Data Storage
The application uses **browser localStorage** for data persistence:

- **Storage Key**: `devstreak-data`
- **Data Format**: JSON object with date strings as keys and productivity levels as values
- **Example**: 
  ```json
  {
    "2024-01-15": 3,
    "2024-01-16": 4,
    "2024-01-17": 2
  }
  ```

### State Management
- **React Hooks**: Uses useState and useEffect for state management
- **Local State**: All application state is managed locally within components
- **No External Store**: No Redux, Zustand, or other state management libraries

### Storage Utilities (`src/utils/storageUtils.ts`)
- `saveProductivityData()` - Saves data to localStorage
- `loadProductivityData()` - Retrieves data from localStorage  
- `clearAllData()` - Removes all stored data

---

## 📁 Folder Structure

```
DevStreak/
├── public/                     # Public assets
├── src/                        # Source code
│   ├── components/             # React components
│   │   ├── BugReportForm.tsx   # Bug reporting functionality
│   │   ├── CalendarView.tsx    # Calendar layout view
│   │   ├── ContributionGrid.tsx # GitHub-style grid view
│   │   ├── ProductivitySelector.tsx # Daily productivity input
│   │   ├── ProgressCard.tsx    # Statistics and progress insights
│   │   ├── StreakCounter.tsx   # Consecutive days counter
│   │   ├── Toast.tsx          # Toast notifications
│   │   └── Tooltip.tsx        # Hover tooltips for grid cells
│   ├── types/                  # TypeScript type definitions
│   │   └── index.ts           # Main interfaces and types
│   ├── utils/                  # Utility functions
│   │   ├── dateUtils.ts       # Date formatting and manipulation
│   │   ├── storageUtils.ts    # localStorage operations
│   │   └── streakUtils.ts     # Streak calculation logic
│   ├── App.tsx                # Main application component
│   ├── main.tsx              # Application entry point
│   ├── index.css             # Global styles
│   └── vite-env.d.ts         # Vite type declarations
├── index.html                 # HTML template
├── package.json              # Dependencies and scripts
├── tailwind.config.js        # Tailwind CSS configuration
├── vite.config.ts           # Vite build configuration
├── tsconfig.json            # TypeScript configuration
└── README.md                # Project documentation
```

### Component Overview

| Component | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| `App.tsx` | Main application logic and routing |
| `ContributionGrid.tsx` | GitHub-style productivity grid |
| `CalendarView.tsx` | Traditional calendar layout |
| `ProgressCard.tsx` | Statistics and analytics view |
| `ProductivitySelector.tsx` | Daily productivity level input |
| `StreakCounter.tsx` | Current streak display |
| `BugReportForm.tsx` | Bug reporting interface |
| `Toast.tsx` | Success/error notifications |
| `Tooltip.tsx` | Hover information display |

### Utility Functions

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `dateUtils.ts` | Date formatting (YYYY-MM-DD), today's date |
| `storageUtils.ts` | localStorage operations for data persistence |
| `streakUtils.ts` | Calculate consecutive productive days |

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend Framework**: React 18 with TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Icons**: Lucide React
- **Screenshot**: html2canvas
- **Linting**: ESLint
- **Package Manager**: npm

---

## 🎨 Design System

- **Color Scheme**: Dark mode with gray-900 background
- **Productivity Colors**: Green gradient (light to dark based on levels)
- **Typography**: System fonts with good contrast
- **Responsive**: Mobile-first approach with Tailwind breakpoints
- **Accessibility**: Proper contrast ratios and semantic HTML
